readme.md, before:

# Vagrant learn-chef

Vagrant learn-chef creates ready-to-go VMs for [Chef] (https://www.chef.io/chef/) 12.6 self-paced learning

The following is an overview of the ready-to-go VMs:

+ **chef-client:** Ready-to-go VM for ["Learn the Chef basics on Ubuntu"] (https://learn.chef.io/learn-the-basics/ubuntu/) tutorial.
+ **chef-server:** Ready-to-go VM (Server) for ["Manage an Ubuntu node"] (https://learn.chef.io/manage-a-node/ubuntu/) tutorial with already installed:
 + Chef Server 12.6
 + Chef Manage package
 + Chef Push Jobs package
 + Reporting package
+ **chef-mgmt  :** Ready-to-go VM (Workstation) for ["Manage an Ubuntu node"] (https://learn.chef.io/manage-a-node/ubuntu/) tutorial with already installed:
 + Chef SDK
 + knife.rb and user's RSA private key in /home/vagrant/chef-repo/.chef
 + chef-server SSL certificate in /home/vagrant/chef-repo/.chef/trusted_certs
+ **node       :** Ready-to-go VM (Node) node for ["Manage an Ubuntu node"] (https://learn.chef.io/manage-a-node/ubuntu/)
## Requirements

- [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads). Tested on 5.0.20, but should also work on 5.0.20+ release.
- [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html). Tested on 1.7.4

All VMs are provisioned using ubuntu/trusty64 (Ubuntu 14.04 Trusty Tahr) from [atlas.hashicorp.com] (https://atlas.hashicorp.com/ubuntu/boxes/trusty64) images, thus your workstation must have a direct internet access. 

## VMs details

VM | vCPU/vRAM | IP Address| user/password | root password |
---|---|---|---|---|
**chef-client** | 1vCPU/512MB | 192.168.99.25 | vagrant/vagrant | vagrant |
**chef-server** | 4vCPU/ 4096 MB | 192.168.99.26 | vagrant/vagrant | vagrant |
**node** | 1vCPU/512MB | 192.168.99.27 | vagrant/vagrant | vagrant |
**chef-mgmt** | 1vCPU/512MB | 192.168.99.28 | vagrant/vagrant | vagrant |
+ **Recommended hardware :** Computer with Multi-core CPU and 8GB+ memory

## Installation

#### Getting started:

Run the commands below:

	git clone https://github.com/gilleslabs/learn-chef
	cd learn-chef


####Lauching Chef-Client or Chef-Server environment:


###### Steps for launching Chef-Client ready-to-go VM:

1. Run the command below:
	```
	vagrant up chef-client
	```


2. Setup should take about 5 minutes to complete

3. When setup is done you can connect to chef-client VM with your favorite ssh client using credentials provided in [VMs details] (https://github.com/gilleslabs/learn-chef#vms-details)

###### Steps for launching Chef-Server ready-to-go environment (Workstation + Server + Node):

1. Run the command below:
	```
	vagrant up chef-server node chef-mgmt
	```

2. The setup will take some time to finish (approximatively 15 minutes depending on your hardware). Sit back and enjoy!

3. When the setup is done browse to `https://192.168.99.26/` in your browser, and you should have a default Chef Manage login page ! 

4. You can log in Chef Manage with user: **jdoe** and password: **abc123**
5. you can connect to chef-mgmt VM with your favorite ssh client using credentials provided in [VMs details] (https://github.com/gilleslabs/learn-chef#vms-details)

## About Chef-Server environment

Details regarding Chef-Server environment installed configuration can be found in [chef-server.md] (https://github.com/gilleslabs/learn-chef/blob/master/chef-server.md)

## Credits

This project was totally inspired from [Learn Chef](https://learn.chef.io/)


## MIT

Copyright (c) 2016 Gilles Tosi

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE

Commit message:

Adding Windows Workstation
Signed-off-by: Gilles <Tosi>

readme.md, after:

# Vagrant learn-chef

Vagrant learn-chef creates ready-to-go VMs for [Chef] (https://www.chef.io/chef/) 12.6 self-paced learning

The following is an overview of the ready-to-go VMs:

+ **chef-client:** Ready-to-go Ubuntu VM for ["Learn the Chef basics on Ubuntu"] (https://learn.chef.io/learn-the-basics/ubuntu/) tutorial.
+ **chef-server:** Ready-to-go Ubuntu VM (Server) for ["Manage an Ubuntu node"] (https://learn.chef.io/manage-a-node/ubuntu/) tutorial with already installed:
 + Chef Server 12.6
 + Chef Manage package
 + Chef Push Jobs package
 + Reporting package
+ **chef-mgmt  :** Ready-to-go Ubuntu VM (Workstation) for ["Manage an Ubuntu node"] (https://learn.chef.io/manage-a-node/ubuntu/) tutorial with already installed:
 + Chef SDK
 + knife.rb and user's RSA private key in /home/vagrant/chef-repo/.chef
 + chef-server SSL certificate in /home/vagrant/chef-repo/.chef/trusted_certs
+ **chef-mgmt-win  :** Ready-to-go Windows 2012 VM (Workstation) for ["Manage an Ubuntu node"] (https://learn.chef.io/manage-a-node/ubuntu/) tutorial with already installed:
 + Chef SDK
 + knife.rb and user's RSA private key in /home/vagrant/chef-repo/.chef
 + chef-server SSL certificate in /home/vagrant/chef-repo/.chef/trusted_certs

+ **node       :** Ready-to-go Ubuntu VM (Node) node for ["Manage an Ubuntu node"] (https://learn.chef.io/manage-a-node/ubuntu/)
## Requirements

- [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads). Tested on 5.0.20, but should also work on 5.0.20+ release.
- [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/downloads.html). Tested on 1.7.4

All VMs are provisioned using ubuntu/trusty64 (Ubuntu 14.04 Trusty Tahr) from [atlas.hashicorp.com] (https://atlas.hashicorp.com/ubuntu/boxes/trusty64) images, thus your workstation must have a direct internet access. 

## VMs details

VM | vCPU/vRAM | IP Address| user/password | root / Administrator password |
---|---|---|---|---|
**chef-client** | 1vCPU/512MB | 192.168.99.25 | vagrant/vagrant | vagrant |
**chef-server** | 4vCPU/ 4096 MB | 192.168.99.26 | vagrant/vagrant | vagrant |
**node** | 1vCPU/512MB | 192.168.99.27 | vagrant/vagrant | vagrant |
**chef-mgmt** | 1vCPU/512MB | 192.168.99.28 | vagrant/vagrant | vagrant |
**chef-mgmt-win** | 2vCPU/4096MB | 192.168.99.29 | vagrant/vagrant | vagrant |
+ **Recommended hardware :** Computer with Multi-core CPU and 8GB+ memory

## Installation

#### Getting started:

Run the commands below:

	git clone https://github.com/gilleslabs/learn-chef
	cd learn-chef


####Lauching Chef-Client or Chef-Server environment:


###### Steps for launching Chef-Client ready-to-go VM:

1. Run the command below:
	```
	vagrant up chef-client
	```


2. Setup should take about 5 minutes to complete

3. When setup is done you can connect to chef-client VM with your favorite ssh client using credentials provided in [VMs details] (https://github.com/gilleslabs/learn-chef#vms-details)

###### Steps for launching Chef-Server ready-to-go environment (Workstation + Server + Node):

1. Run the command below:

+ If you want to use the **Ubuntu Workstation**

	```
	vagrant up chef-server node chef-mgmt
	```

+ If you want to use the **Windows 2012 Workstation**


	```
	vagrant up chef-server node chef-mgmt-win
	```

2. The setup will take some time to finish (approximatively 15 minutes depending on your hardware). Sit back and enjoy!

3. When the setup is done browse to `https://192.168.99.26/` in your browser, and you should have a default Chef Manage login page ! 

4. You can log in Chef Manage with user: **jdoe** and password: **abc123**
5. You can connect to : 
+ **chef-mgmt** VM with your favorite ssh client using credentials provided in [VMs details] (https://github.com/gilleslabs/learn-chef#vms-details)
+ **chef-mgmt-win** VM with your favorite RDP client using credentials provided in [VMs details] (https://github.com/gilleslabs/learn-chef#vms-details)

## About Chef-Server environment

Details regarding Chef-Server environment installed configuration can be found in [chef-server.md] (https://github.com/gilleslabs/learn-chef/blob/master/chef-server.md)

## Credits

This project was totally inspired from [Learn Chef](https://learn.chef.io/)


## MIT

Copyright (c) 2016 Gilles Tosi

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE
